 Systems (BESS).
Utility Solar Play: Rajasthan has top solar yield but low EV demand. Recommendation: Build utility-scale solar farms here and wheel power to other states.
Do Not Touch: Bihar and Jharkhand (Low demand, low subsidies, weak grids).


[
  {
    "question": "Can you explain the mathematical approach used to forecast EV demand to 2030?",
    "context_trigger": "Demand Forecasting Math, OLS, ln(EV)",
    "ui_label": "📈 Explain the Demand Forecasting Math"
  },
  {
    "question": "Why did you use a custom Bisection Algorithm instead of standard Python financial libraries for IRR?",
    "context_trigger": "Financial Model, Bisection Search, IRR",
    "ui_label": "🧮 Why write a custom Bisection Algorithm?"
  },
  {
    "question": "How does the model account for risk and uncertainty over the 20-year project lifespan?",
    "context_trigger": "Risk Analysis, Monte Carlo, 1000 iterations",
    "ui_label": "🎲 How does the Monte Carlo simulation work?"
  },
  {
    "question": "How did you combine conflicting metrics like 'Megawatts' and 'Rupees' into a single ranking?",
    "context_trigger": "MCDA Normalization, Weights, Tornado Chart",
    "ui_label": "⚖️ Explain the MCDA Scoring Model"
  },
  {
    "question": "Based on the data, what is the final executive recommendation for a $500M deployment?",
    "context_trigger": "Final Business Recommendations, Tier 1, Delhi Caveat",
    "ui_label": "🚀 What is the final investment recommendation?"
  }
]

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: EV INFRASTRUCTURE DEPLOYMENT
TO: Investment Committee
FROM: Quantitative Strategy Desk
SUBJECT: Phase 1 Capital Allocation for Solar-EV Hubs (India Market)
1. STRATEGIC OVERVIEW
Following a comprehensive multi-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) of 20 Indian states, leveraging 5 years of historical EV data and 1,000-iteration Monte Carlo risk simulations, we have identified the optimal deployment zones for the initial infrastructure fund. The analysis synthesizes demand volume, policy incentives, solar yield (GHI), and grid stability.
2. PHASE 1 ALLOCATION TARGETS (TIER 1)
Capital should be immediately concentrated in Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Gujarat.
Rationale: These states exhibit the highest composite scores (80+/100). They offer a baseline IRR exceeding 20% post-subsidy, supported by urban EV growth compounding at >35% annually. Their state-level DISCOMs possess the grid stability required to absorb 10MW charging loads without catastrophic failure.
3. THE DELHI CAVEAT (HIGH YIELD, HIGH RISK)
Finding: Delhi presents the highest raw demand volume (projected >150k EVs by 2030) and the most lucrative state subsidies (₹30,000/EV).
Risk: Our Grid Mechanics engine flags Delhi as CRITICAL. The simultaneous charging load of the projected EV fleet exceeds 10% of the state's peak capacity buffer.
Recommendation: Proceed with capital deployment in Delhi, but mandate that 20% of regional CAPEX be allocated to Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) to load-shift from peak to off-peak hours.
4. PHASE 2 OBSERVATIONS
The Sun Belt Strategy: States like Rajasthan possess exceptional Solar Irradiance (GHI) but lack the urban EV density to justify immediate hub construction. We recommend utilizing these regions for utility-scale generation, wheeling the power to high-demand corridors.
Capital Preservation: States including Bihar and Jharkhand exhibit P10 (worst-case) Monte Carlo returns below our 10% discount rate hurdle. Defer all investment in these regions until Phase 3 (post-2030) when hardware costs normalize.
Methodology Note: All financial projections utilize a custom bisection algorithm for absolute IRR precision and factor in the ₹15,000 FAME-II central subsidy, accelerated depreciation tax shields (40%), and state-specific GST waivers.